Update remote store stats api documentation (#5107)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _tuning-your-cluster/availability-and-recovery/remote-store/remote-store-stats-api.md

---

# Remote Store Stats API

Introduced 2.8
{: .label .label-purple }

Use the Remote Store Stats API to monitor shard-level remote-backed storage performance. 

> Metrics returned from this API only relate to indexes stored on remote-backed nodes. For an aggregated output on an index in a node or cluster level, use the [Index Stats]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/api-reference/index-apis/stats/), [Nodes Stats]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/api-reference/nodes-apis/nodes-stats/) or [Cluster Stats]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/api-reference/cluster-api/cluster-stats/) APIs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Metrics returned from this API only relate to indexes stored on remote-backed nodes. For an aggregated output on an index in a node or cluster level, use the [Index Stats]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/api-reference/index-apis/stats/), [Nodes Stats]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/api-reference/nodes-apis/nodes-stats/) or [Cluster Stats]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/api-reference/cluster-api/cluster-stats/) API.
```

Introduced 2.8
{: .label .label-purple }

> Use the Remote Store Stats API to monitor shard-level remote store performance. Metrics are only relevant if the index is remote store backed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the Remote Store Stats API to monitor shard-level remote-backed storage performance. 
```

> For an aggregated output on an index, node or cluster level, use the Index Stats, Nodes Stats or Cluster Stats API respectively.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Metrics returned from this API only relate to indexes stored on remote-backed nodes. For an aggregated output on an index in a node or cluster level, use the [Index Stats]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/api-reference/index-apis/stats/), [Nodes Stats]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/api-reference/nodes-apis/nodes-stats/) or [Cluster Stats]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/api-reference/cluster-api/cluster-stats/) APIs.
```

                                    "failed": 0,
                                    "succeeded": 7
                                },
                                "total_upload_size": {
                                    "started_bytes": 2405,
                                    "failed_bytes": 0,
                                    "succeeded_bytes": 2405
                                },
                                "total_upload_time_in_millis": 27748,
                                "upload_size_in_bytes": {
                                    "moving_avg": 343.57142857142856
                                },
                                "upload_speed_in_bytes_per_sec": {
                                    "moving_avg": 1445.857142857143
                                },
                                "upload_time_in_millis": {
                                    "moving_avg": 3964.0
                                }
                            },
                            "download": {}
                        }
                    }
                ]
            }
        }
    }
}
```
</details>

### Response fields

> The response is categorized into 3 parts:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The response body of the Remote Store Stats API is split into three categories.
```

> * `routing` : Contains information related to the shard’s routing

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `routing` : Contains information related to the shard’s routing.
```

> * `segment` : Contains stats related to segment transfers to and from the remote store

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `segment` : Contains stats related to segment transfers from remote-backed storage.
```

* `translog` : Contains stats related to translog transfers to and from the remote store

The `routing` object contains the following fields:

|Field	|Description	|
|:---	|:---	|
|primary    |Denotes if the shard copy is primary or not    |
|node   |Node name to which the shard is assigned to    |

The `segment.upload` object contains the following fields:

|Field	|Description	|
|:---	|:---	|

> |local_refresh_timestamp_in_millis  |Last successful local refresh timestamp (in milliseconds)  |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|local_refresh_timestamp_in_millis  | The last successful local refresh timestamp, in milliseconds.  |
```

> |remote_refresh_timestamp_in_millis |Last successful remote refresh timestamp (in milliseconds) |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `remote_refresh_timestamp_in_millis` | The last successful remote refresh timestamp, in milliseconds. |
```

> |refresh_time_lag_in_millis |The time (in milliseconds) the remote refresh is behind the local refresh. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `refresh_time_lag_in_millis` | The time, in milliseconds, the remote refresh is behind the local refresh. |
```

                                "total_upload_time_in_millis": 27748,
                                "upload_size_in_bytes": {
                                    "moving_avg": 343.57142857142856
                                },
                                "upload_speed_in_bytes_per_sec": {
                                    "moving_avg": 1445.857142857143
                                },
                                "upload_time_in_millis": {
                                    "moving_avg": 3964.0
                                }
                            },
                            "download": {}
                        }
                    }
                ]
            }
        }
    }
}
```
</details>

### Response fields

The response body of the Remote Store Stats API is split into three categories:

* `routing` : Contains information related to the shard’s routing.
* `segment` : Contains stats related to segment transfers from remote-backed storage.
* `translog` : Contains stats related to translog transfers from remote-backed storage.

#### routing

The `routing` object contains the following fields:

|Field	|Description	|
|:---	|:---	|

> | `primary` | Denotes if the shard copy is primary shard or not.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `primary` | Denotes whether the shard copy is a primary shard or not.|
```

| `node` | Node name to which the shard is assigned. |

#### segment

The `segment.upload` object contains the following fields:

|Field	|Description	|
|:---	|:---	|
| `local_refresh_timestamp_in_millis` | The last successful local refresh timestamp, in milliseconds.  |
| `remote_refresh_timestamp_in_millis` | The last successful remote refresh timestamp, in milliseconds. |

> | `refresh_time_lag_in_millis` | The time, in milliseconds, the remote refresh is behind the local refresh. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `refresh_time_lag_in_millis` | The time, in milliseconds, that the remote refresh is behind the local refresh. |
```

| `refresh_lag` | The number of refreshes by which the remote store is lagging behind the local store.   |
| `bytes_lag` | The lag in bytes between the remote and local store.  |

> | `backpressure_rejection_count` | The total number of write rejections made due to backpressure in the remote store.    |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `backpressure_rejection_count` | The total number of write rejections issued due to backpressure in the remote store.    |
```

| `upload_latency_in_bytes_per_sec.moving_avg` | The average speed of remote segment uploads, in bytes per second, for the last *N* uploads. *N* is defined in the `remote_store.moving_average_window_size` setting. For details, see [Remote segment backpressure](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/tuning-your-cluster/availability-and-recovery/remote-store/remote-segment-backpressure/).    |
| `remote_refresh_latency_in_millis.moving_avg` | The average time taken by a single remote refresh during the last *N* remote refreshes. *N* is defined in `remote_store.moving_average_window_size` setting. For details, see [Remote segment backpressure](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/tuning-your-cluster/availability-and-recovery/remote-store/remote-segment-backpressure/).    |

The `segment.download` object contains the following fields:

|Field	|Description	|
|:---	|:---	|

> | `last_sync_timestamp`| The timestamp in millisecond since the last successful segement file download from the remote-backed storage. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `last_sync_timestamp`| The timestamp in milliseconds since the last successful segment file download from the remote-backed storage. |
```

| `total_download_size.started_bytes` | The total number of bytes of segment files actively being downloaded from remote-backed storage.   |
| `total_download_size.succeeded_bytes` | The total number of bytes of successfully downloaded segment files from remote-backed storage. |
| `total_download_size.failed_bytes` | The total number of bytes of segment files that failed to download from remote-back storage. |

> | `download_size_in_bytes.last_successful` | The size, in bytes, of the last successful segment file downloaded from remote-backed storage. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `download_size_in_bytes.last_successful` | The size, in bytes, of the last segment file successfully downloaded from remote-backed storage. |
```

> | `download_size_in_bytes.moving_avg`  | The average size of segement data, in bytes, downloaded in the last 20 downloads. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `download_size_in_bytes.moving_avg`  | The average size of segment data, in bytes, downloaded in the last 20 downloads. |
```

> | `download_speed_in_bytes_per_sec.moving_avg` | The average download speed, in bytes per seconds, for the last 20 downloads. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `download_speed_in_bytes_per_sec.moving_avg` | The average download speed, in bytes per second, of the last 20 downloads. |
```

#### translog

> The `translog.upload` object contains the following fields:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `translog.upload` object contains the following fields.
```

|Field	|Description	|
|:---	|:---	|

> | `last_successful_upload_timestamp`| The timestamp, in milliseconds, since the last successful translog file uploaded to remore-backed storage. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `last_successful_upload_timestamp`| The timestamp, in milliseconds, since the last translog file successfully uploaded to remote-backed storage. |
```

| `total_uploads.started` | The total number of attempted translog upload syncs to remote-backed storage. |
| `total_uploads.failed` | The total number of failed translog upload syncs to remote-backed storage.   |
| `total_uploads.succeeded` | The total number of successful translog upload syncs to remote-backed storage.  |
| `total_upload_size.started_bytes` | The total number of bytes of translog files actively being downloaded from remote-backed storage. |
| `total_upload_size.succeeded_bytes` | The total number of bytes of translog files successfully uploaded to remote-backed storage. |

> |`total_upload_size.failed_bytes` | The total number of bytes of translog files that failed to uploaded to remote-backed storage. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|`total_upload_size.failed_bytes` | The total number of bytes of translog files that failed to upload to remote-backed storage. |
```

> | `total_upload_time_in_millis` | The total time spent, in milliseconds, uploading translog files to remote-backed storage. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `total_upload_time_in_millis` | The total amount of time spent, in milliseconds, uploading translog files to remote-backed storage. |
```

| `upload_size_in_bytes.moving_avg` | The average size of translog data, in bytes, uploaded in the last *N* downloads. *N* is defined in the `remote_store.moving_average_window_size` setting. |
| `upload_speed_in_bytes_per_sec.moving_avg` | The average speed of translog uploads, in bytes per second, for the last *N* uploads. *N* is defined in the `remote_store.moving_average_window_size` setting.    |

> | `upload_time_in_millis.moving_avg` | The average time taken by a single translog upload, in milliseconds, since the last *N* uploads. *N* is defined in `remote_store.moving_average_window_size` setting.    |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `upload_time_in_millis.moving_avg` | The average amount of time taken by a single translog upload, in milliseconds, since the last *N* uploads. *N* is defined in the `remote_store.moving_average_window_size` setting.    |
```

> The `translog.download` object contains the following fields:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `translog.download` object contains the following fields.
```

|Field	|Description	|
|:---	|:---	|

> | `last_successful_download_timestamp` | The timestamp, in milliseconds, since the last successful translog file uploaded to remote-backed storage. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `last_successful_download_timestamp` | The timestamp, in milliseconds, since the last translog file successfully uploaded to remote-backed storage. |
```

| `total_downloads.succeeded` | The total number of successful translog download syncs from remote-backed storage. |
| `total_download_size.succeeded_bytes` | The total number of bytes of translog files successfully uploaded from remote-backed storage.  |

> | `total_download_time_in_millis` | The total time spent, in milliseconds, downloading translog files from remote-backed storage.  |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `total_download_time_in_millis` | The total amount of time spent, in milliseconds, downloading translog files from remote-backed storage.  |
```

| `download_size_in_bytes.moving_avg`  | The average size of translog data, in bytes, downloaded in the last *N* downloads. *N* is defined in the `remote_store.moving_average_window_size` setting.    |
| `download_speed_in_bytes_per_sec.moving_avg` | The average speed of translog downloads, in bytes per second, for the last *N* uploads. *N* is defined in the `remote_store.moving_average_window_size` setting.   |

> | `download_time_in_millis.moving_avg` |  The average time taken by a single translog download, in milliseconds, since the last *N* uploads. *N* is defined in `remote_store.moving_average_window_size` setting.  |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `download_time_in_millis.moving_avg` |  The average amount of time taken by a single translog download, in milliseconds, since the last *N* uploads. *N* is defined in the `remote_store.moving_average_window_size` setting.  |
```

                        "segment": {
                            "download": {
                                "last_sync_timestamp": 1694171634148,
                                "total_download_size": {
                                    "started_bytes": 15112,
                                    "succeeded_bytes": 15112,
                                    "failed_bytes": 0
                                },
                                "download_size_in_bytes": {
                                    "last_successful": 2910,
                                    "moving_avg": 1259.3333333333333
                                },
                                "download_speed_in_bytes_per_sec": {
                                    "moving_avg": 382387.3333333333
                                }
                            },
                            "upload": {}
                        },
                        "translog": {
                            "upload": {},
                            "download": {}
                        }
                    }
                ]
            }
        }
    }
}
```
</details>

### Remote store stats for a local shard

> If you want to only fetch shards present on the node serving a Remote Store Stats API request, set the `local` query parameter to `true`, as shown in the following example request:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to fetch only shards present on the node serving a Remote Store Stats API request, set the `local` query parameter to `true`, as shown in the following example request:
```
